---
layout: post
title:  "Medical Images Online Database"
date:   2022-09-30 00:00:00 +0800
categories: data
---
A proof-of-concept (PoC) platform to collect **CT/MRI images** and store them in a centralized data lake. The website offers **data browsing** capabilities with an integrated **DICOM viewer** that provides common features such as measurement and annotation. The database includes patient information, textual reports, and images, making it a valuable resource for future research such as federated learning. An online annotation system also allows for data enhancement through labeling for supervised learning.

---

## Key Concepts

##### Security
- **RBAC:** Role-based access control is implemented using usernames and passwords, along with email verification and subscription features.
- **Anonymization & Encryption:** Sensitive patient data is concealed using anonymization and encryption techniques.

##### User Experience
- Designed for non-IT users (Physicians and Healthcare researcher), the platform includes an integrated DICOM viewer similar to hospital PACS systems.
- Intuitive upload and download functionalities ensure ease of use.

##### Data Diversity
- A single patient may have multiple CT/MRI image sets; a unique ID is generated to correctly match patient records.
- Textual reports vary in quality due to potential typos, grammatical issues, and individual documentation habits.

---
## Architecture

- **Server & Deployment**  
  Hosted on a Linux server, the system is containerized using Docker and built with Django for both the web interface and API services.
  
- **Database**  
  A PostgreSQL database stores initial data uploaded via the API. Users can also upload data through an RBAC-protected client channel.
  
- **Front-End Integration**  
  The website features an integrated DICOM viewer for retrieving and viewing images. It supports annotations and version control, allowing users to add annotations or modify content with different versions stored.
  
- **Additional Features**  
  Batch download functionality using filters is provided to support future research purpose.

---

## Skills & Tools
- **Programming:** Python, Linux, Docker, Django  
- **Preprocessing:** PyDICOM, OpenCV, Pandas, NLTK  
- **Database:** PostgreSQL  
- **DICOM Viewer:** OHIF


